# Akudemy

We take programmers who want to join a company, and help them take care of the tech aspect of the interviews.

Anyone can apply, no matter the experience or skill level.

Akudemy is funded by referral bonuses, when applicable, which means most of you help out just by passing the interviews, and won't be asked for a donation! [[more information](#how-much-does-it-cost)].

To get started, send me an email at matei@akudemy.tech. [[more information](#how-do-i-get-started)]

## Table of contents
<!-- generated by https://luciopaiva.com/markdown-toc/ , modified -->

- [How does it work?](#how-does-it-work)
- [How much time does the academy take?](#how-much-time-does-the-academy-take)
- [What does the academy offer?](#what-does-the-academy-offer)
- [What qualifications do I need?](#what-qualifications-do-i-need)
- [How do I get started?](#how-do-i-get-started)
- [Instruction at Akudemy](#instruction-at-akudemy)
- [How much does it cost?](#how-much-does-it-cost)
- [Why TopTal? Do I have a choice?](#why-toptal-do-i-have-a-choice)
- [How can I help?](#how-can-i-help)
- [Disclaimers](#disclaimers)

## How does it work?

We’ll start by discussing your goals, skill level, and availability, and we'll come up with a plan to bridge the gap between where you are now and where you’d like to be, with an almost guaranteed chance of success.

The training offered is based on a series of timed challenges for you to complete – your training plan will be continuously adjusted based on your performance. I will be available throughout the programme to answer any questions you may have.

The academy itself is completely free: when, following the programme, you join a company like TopTal, the referral bonus I obtain will go towards funding Akudemy. If the referral bonus can't be leveraged, I will ask you to make a donation, but only after you have found employment. 

## How much time does the academy take?

The programme can start as soon as it is convenient for you. Since the programme content and length is tailored to fit your personal situation, a bespoke timeline will be agreed upon during an initial consultation. The timeline will depend upon:
1. your goals: getting into TopTal will be harder than passing a generic tech interview. While I personally recommend TopTal, this doesn’t have to be your personal end goal – the position you set your sights on will influence the training programme.
1. your current skill level: all skill levels are welcome, though the time it takes to reach your desired skill level will depend on your starting point.
1. your availability: everyone's personal circumstances are different, and we can devise a learning path that takes yours into account.

Let's look at a few examples. If you are trying to get into TopTal, and...
- have been a professional full-stack node developer for 5 years, occasionally do programming challenges, and can practice 3 hours a day: it should take you 2-5 days
- have just finished your Bachelor's degree in Computer Science, and can practice 4 hours a day: it should take you 1-5 weeks
- have never programmed before, but you like watching Numberphile and can practice 2 hours a day: it should take you 4-12 months

## What does the academy offer?

Most students are worried about the technical side of tech interviews, especially when "algorithms" are involved. Helping you come up with algorithms to solve a competitive programming challenge is my specialty. You'll learn that these challenges follow a finite number of patterns, and once you become familiar with said patterns, you'll be able to apply them to solve new problems.

Other students are more worried about take-home projects and field-specific questions. The majority of the work/knowledge needed for a take-home project can be minimized by knowing where to look for the necessary information, and asking the right questions.

You might also have concerns of a non-programmatic nature, such as whether you are the right fit for a particular job, or about the behaviour you should adopt during an interview. We can discuss these issues together.

I'm here to help you achieve your goals, with all the resources I have available.

## What qualifications do I need?

None. If you are interested in my offer, contact me, even if you don’t think you have enough experience.

If you are not an experienced programmer, the training might take longer, but we can still come up with a path for you.

While I reserve the right to decline taking on new students, there is no reason you shouldn’t contact me to enquire about the programme if you believe you or someone you know could benefit from it.

## How do I get started?

Contact me! Send me an email containing the following information, and anything else you deem noteworthy:
- your goals
- your current skill level
- your availability

Please let me know how you learnt about Akudemy!

Here is a sample email:

```
to: matei@akudemy.tech
subject: Interest in Akudemy

Hi,

I was told about Akudemy by my CompSci lecturer at XYZ, and I'm interested in
joining TopTal.

I'm focusing on JavaScript, and while I have had no professional experience
with it, I have worked on several industry-level projects with other students,
here are some links: (...).
I'm most worried about live-coding in interviews, I'm not sure what to expect.

I have just finished my Bachelors, and am currently looking for the best job I
can get, so I believe I can spend 4 hours practicing every day, with the hope
of being ready for TopTal by next week.

Thank you for your time,
David
```

## Instruction at Akudemy

My name is Matei Copot, and while the Akudemy is a community of people who help each other out, I'll be your main instructor.

I'm currently part of the TopTal network, you can find my resume here: https://www.toptal.com/resume/matei-copot. I'm not looking for new positions.

I've worked over a dozen of clients as a contractor, and have had to go through interviews for almost all of them, with a success rate approaching 100%. On top of that, competitive programming is a hobby: I love participating in competitions like AoC, solving interview questions for fun, submitting to game jams, and generally solving programming problems.

You may know me from [my work on codepen](https://codepen.io/towc/), which includes my (unfinished) popular guide for jumpstarting JavaScript knowledge, [example.js](https://codepen.io/towc/post/examplejs-1-1). You may also know me as a js13kgames.com competitor, where in 2015 [flappy box](https://js13kgames.com/entries/flappy-box) was the 2nd most popular game, and it was in under 2kb.

I gave talks at JSOxford meetups, and started JSBratislava, mentoring several developers while being a key member of Progressbar Hackerspace.

If you have any questions about whether I can help you, email me at matei@akudemy.tech

## How much does it cost?
Nothing.

If you are applying to TopTal and are eligible for the referral bonus, you and I both get 2500 usd after you pass the exams and take your first job.

If you're not eligible for referral bonuses, I would ask you to donate a matching 2500 usd, but only after you get in that company, and we can wait a little for you to get your first paycheck, which should easily cover the donation.

To be eligible for a TopTal referral, you must
- not have made a TopTal developer account more than 6 months ago.
- not have named anyone else as your referrer.
- not have already attempted the toptal exams.
- have JavaScript or Python as a main skill.

Technologies like Ruby/Go/C++ are also valid, but they occasionally change. Do ask, if JS and Python aren't in your toolhouse.

If you don't have a TopTal account, great, you can make one towards the end of the programme. It's easy, and I can guide you through it.

## Why TopTal? Do I have a choice?
You do have a choice!

I simply strongly recommend TopTal. I've been with them for 2 years, and from a contractor perspective, they are fantastic, and here's why:
1. It's easy to find 40-50 usd/hr jobs through it. With a little effort, you can double that in a year.
1. You can pick exactly how many hours a week you'd like to work for, and it doesn't have to be a fixed amount.
1. You pick your own clients, out of a list of hundreds. You get to support the products you care about.
1. You join a slack community of over 10k other toptalers, chatting about any technology, allowing you to stay sharp.
1. It's remote work. The teams I've worked with so far have created strong bonds, it's not monkey work.
1. Switching clients is very easy. You can do it at a moment's notice, and TopTal handles all the paperwork for you.
1. Having gone through their interview process, I know what you should expect, and how to prepare you for it.
1. TopTal itself has an optional free academy program for toptalers, to help them stay current, and learn new skills.
1. You can work outside of TopTal while being a toptaler, you are not obligated to do anything. The membership doesn't expire.
1. You get 2500 usd just for starting your first engagement, which can immediately pay for the effort you put into getting in.

We can prepare you for any other target you might have your eyes on. I devise most of the learning paths around TopTal, so those will be the most efficient ones.

## How can I help?

Thank you for asking!

The most helpful thing you can do is to refer people to this academy. Link them to this page, or send me an email telling me you know someone who is interested.

If you're interested in being an Akudemy coach, let me know. For the moment, I can handle the current volume of students, but do get in touch, so I can contact you when the need might arise.

If you're a company looking for hires, you can set up a referral program similar to TopTal's, then send me an email so I can consider sending more students your way.

## Disclaimers

I am not part of the TopTal team, my association with TopTal stops at being part of their talent network.

No person or entity has paid me/Akudemy to promote them over others, outside of the incentives of the referral bonuses.
